---
author: "Ershov, Kirill and Kochubei, S. and Kiselev, Vitaly and Baklanov, Alexey"
title: "Decomposition Pathways of Titanium Isopropoxide Ti(O<sup>i</sup>Pr)<sub>4</sub>: New Insights from UV-Photodissociation Experiments and Quantum Chemical Calculations"
journal: "The Journal of Physical Chemistry A"
year: "2018"
pages: "1064 − 1070"
volume: "122"
doi: "10.1021/acs.jpca.7b10396"
members:
  - k-ershov
  - a-baklanov
---
The UV-photodissociation at 266 nm of a widely used TiO<sub>2</sub> precursor, titanium tetraisopropoxide 
(Ti(O<sup>i</sup>Pr)<sub>4</sub>, TTIP), was studied under molecular-beam conditions. Using the MS-TOF technique, 
atomic titanium and titanium(II) oxide (TiO) were detected among the most abundant photofragments. 
Experimental results were rationalized with the aid of quantum chemical calculations (DLPNO–CCSD(T) and DFT). 
Contrary to the existing data in the literature, the new four-centered acetone-elimination reaction was found to be 
the primary decomposition process of TTIP. According to computational results, the effective activation barrier 
of this channel was ∼49 kcal/mol, which was ∼13 kcal/mol lower than that of the competing propylene elimination. 
The former process, followed by the dissociative loss of an H atom, was a dominating channel of 
TTIP unimolecular decay. The sequential loss of isopropoxy moieties via these two-step processes was supposed 
to produce the experimentally observed titanium atoms. In turn, the combination of these reactions with propylene 
elimination can lead to another detected species, TiO. These results indicate that the existing mechanisms of 
TTIP thermal and photoinitiated decomposition in the chemical-vapor deposition (CVD) of titanium dioxide should 
be reconsidered.
